as John Henrik Clark said powerful
people cannot afford to educate the
people that they oppress because once
you were truly educated you will not ask
for power you will take it I have the
chills right now and I want everyone
listening to this to really think about
that power is not given it is assumed if
you want something in your life you've
got to become capable of taking it and
that's the whole point behind getting
educated don't think about education is
flipping through a bunch of books
getting educated is about gaining
knowledge knowledge that has utility
knowledge that can be put to use in
service of something but you've got to
know what that in service of is what are
you trying to do why are you trying to
educate yourself and are you waiting are
you asking politely if you can be
educated or are you grabbing the things
that you need in order to learn and
insisting of your self insisting of
yourself that you gain that knowledge
that you begin to empower yourself that
you build yourself into someone who
cannot be conquered and as Walt Whitman
said I live to be the ruler of life not
a slave to meet life as a powerful
Conqueror and nothing exterior to me
will ever take command of me now if
you're gonna live by those words you are
going to have to empower yourself you
are going to have to become capable of
something tomorrow that you are not
capable of today and the only way to do
that is to educate yourself but don't
get trapped in other people's definition
of education education is not sitting
blindly in the classroom education is
not simply working your way through
Wikipedia education is about
understanding what you're trying to
accomplish and getting the knowledge
that you need in order to bend reality
to your will and this is the thing that
drives me crazy about how people
approach
at the end of the day knowledge skills
they are designed to have real-world
impact they are designed to give you the
ability to do something that influences
this world they are designed to make you
capable of something that you weren't
capable of before when it is blind
learning when you think it's to impress
your parents or to get an a on the test
or to make your manager at work happy
you have already lost the point of
knowledge is to make sure that you can
close your eyes and envision a world
open your eyes and then make that world
come true the point of knowledge is to
control your own life never forget that
as vaclav havel said work for something
because it is good not just because it
stands a chance to succeed this is
something that I think a lot of people
misunderstand they think that the goal
of their life is to identify something
that'll work to identify something that
has the odds stacked in its favor rather
than to think about what matters what's
important because if something is
important if it speaks to you if it's
going to give resonance to your life
then it's worth doing even if it's
something that is almost guaranteed to
fail when something matters enough
regardless of the odds it's worth
engaging with because even in the
pursuit you can find meaning and as
humans one of the things that we hunger
for most is purpose and meaning but you
can't have that purpose in meaning
without the thing that you're pursuing
be something that you believe to be
worthwhile so don't worry about whether
or not it succeeds ask only about
whether or not it's going to light you
on fire asked only if in those dark
moments that it will give you that sense
of mattering to this world that even in
the failure do you learn something about
yourself do you see the truth that
you matter and that even as a single
person even as one individual you can
echo through this world but that will
never happen by pursuing something small
that will never happen by pursuing
something simply because it can win it
will only happen by pursuing something
that matters and in that if you pursue
something it matters and you're able to
get to the point where you can see it
across the finish line or at least
advance it and make it a step closer to
becoming real in that we realize how
societies really are transformed in that
and trying the big the impossible
dreaming that thing that nobody else is
even willing to talk about in dreaming
that it is the crazy ones who are able
to change the world because the crazy
ones allowed themselves to believe they
allowed themselves to believe that
against all the odds a world that does
not yet exist could actually exist and
as Ralph Marcin said welcomed those big
sticky complicated problems in them are
your most powerful opportunities and
that's it the big problems the ones that
matter the things that will give you
purpose and meaning in your life they're
going to be hard but if you can look at
the hard things and show up and push
every day and keep striving and when you
fall down pick yourself back up and
focus only on one thing not whether or
not you're going to win but whether or
not it
that you played if you do that every
sacrifice in your life will be worth it
and if not nothing you gain will have
mattered
this Frederic Nietzsche said many are
stubborn and pursued the path they have
chosen few in pursuit of the goal and
that's one of the things that really
trips people up at the end of the day a
path is an option it's one of the ways
forward but it's the thing that you're
doing right now today so people get
really focused on that they make their
happiness built around that they think
about that as the thing but as the old
saying goes don't confuse the finger
with the moon that it's pointing at
that's where you've got to be really
careful at the end of the day the goal
is the thing that you're trying to
achieve the goal is what you're trying
to get the path is irrelevant the path
is really your best guess it's the thing
you think is going to work but if you
become my optically focused on that if
you think that the path really is the
end thing if you think the finger
actually is the moon then you miss the
objective to which you're fighting for
then you're not gonna have the energy to
keep pushing when things get really hard
because you're going to have mistaken
the way of getting there with the
destination itself and I think that
people a lot of times throw hate on
having a destination on building towards
some big goal of having some grand thing
that they're chasing but as Einstein
said if you want to live a happy life
tie it to a goal not two people
not two things and the reason that he
said that people and things they change
you've got no control over them at the
end of the day the only thing that you
really control is yourself at the end of
the day the only thing that you can hope
for is to be going after something that
has a meaning something that has purpose
something that really gives you a reason
for being that directs your actions that
becomes the filter by which you judge
everything that really becomes the
center the gravitational center of your
own universe but it's the goal
so what is it that you really want you
have to identify that to meet everything
in life everything in life starts with
the goal and then work your way
backwards don't allow yourself to get
caught up in other people and putting up
happiness and somebody else in finding
purpose in something else and trying to
obtain it the beans have it be something
that we're trying to accomplish have it
be something that you're trying to
once you're on the path to becoming
then you can find real you've got two
choices in life choice one you can
become somebody else choice - you can
become yourself now I really wish that
there was only one choice but in truth
there's not in most people choose to try
to become someone else because it's a
road map its points in the direction you
see someone you respond to something you
admire them you want to be like them and
in that process
you've made your decision in that
process you decided to become somebody
else you have mistaken the finger for
the moon instead you need to understand
that being inspired by somebody does not
mean to become that person to become
that which inspires you it is to
understand fundamentally what is it
about that thing that excites you what
is it what is its essence and when you
can find its essence then you can find
out how it would apply to you becoming
you and as Zen she says
flower does not think about competing
with the flower next to it it just
blooms and that's really your job is to
see the outside world to see the flower
next to you to understand the amazing
things that are happening all around you
all of the incredible people and the
essence of what they have and what it is
that they've done to bring inside
yourself and find out what does that
look like when it's me not what do I
look like when I'm
and once you understand the difference
between that then you can really begin
to be something unique you can become
that thing that you were meant to be
that thing that makes you feel alive and
whole and that's it that's the secret
you're just trying to be something not
that's just inspiring to other people I
think you actually want to wake up every
day and be and that's the [__] thing
about it there's no escaping you
whatever you become a lie the truth
somebody else yourself whatever it is
there's been every day of your life
there and as Albert Einstein said
everybody's a genius but if you judge a
fish by its ability to climb a tree it
will live it's whole life believing that
it's stupid and that's what confuses
people people believe that they're done
because they're not finding their path
they're not defining things based on
what excites them and what they want to
live with every day they're just looking
to what the outside world says is good
and I think it's incredible but there
are other people doing things that are
so extraordinary that we aspire to be
like that but you have to understand the
difference between being like someone
and trying to actually be
so if what inspires you is that somebody
works hard work hard if what inspires
you is that somebody gets up every time
they fail to get up every time you fail
if what you like is that they're
themselves with all their weird
eccentricities and quirks then be true
to your eccentricities and quirks but
don't try to embody their eccentricities
and quarks that's the surest way to
become the fish that thinks it's stupid
because it's being judged by trying to
climb a tree
so with Scott Belsky said when 99% of
the people doubt your idea you're either
gravely wrong or about to make history
and that's the terrifying part you're
not gonna know you're not gonna know the
difference but if you're chasing
somebody else's path if your whole game
is emulation if your whole game is to
mimic that which inspires you you will
never find the thing that's real about
you and look I don't know about you but
I can be wrong I can be gravely wrong I
can have people think me an idiot and
try something and fail as long as it was
true to me because then the lesson that
I'm gonna learn is going to apply it's
gonna take me an ever step closer to
actually being the person that I want to
become that I want to live with every
day I can't be
if I don't understand who I want to be
so look inward identify your path
identify what excites you and go after
it as if your life depends on it because
in truth it does
all right listen and listen well because
no truer words are ever gonna be [__]
spoken you can do anything you want
without limitation whatever it is that
you decide you want to make come true in
your life you can do that it is gonna
take an inhuman amount of work you're
gonna have to be prepared to break
yourself in half you are going to have
to learn more than anyone has ever
learned you're gonna have to push
yourself harder than anyone has ever
asked you to push yourself before you're
gonna go way beyond your breaking point
you're gonna run until you vomit you're
gonna study until you fall asleep you're
going to push and push and push and then
you're gonna push some [__] more and
when you hit the limit you're gonna push
again beyond that you're gonna force
yourself to an adaptation response and
why because it's Malcolm X said the
future belongs to those who prepare for
it today so if you don't put the work in
today if you don't do the unending
back-breaking work of developing
yourself into something greater the
world is gonna pass you by the people
that are going to own it are gonna be
the ones that did that work and the one
promise that I can make you right now is
that somebody somebody out there is out
working somebody right now is doing the
things times
somebody right now is doing the work of
failing and getting up and getting
better and pushing themselves and
triggering that glorious adaptation
response that makes humans the apex
predator someone right now they're
putting in that work and if you don't
the future is gonna belong to them and
as Martin Luther King jr. said you can't
fly than one if you can't run then walk
if you can't walk then crawl but
whatever you do you have to keep moving
forward it's not okay to make excuses
it's not gonna slow people down it's not
okay to ask the world to stop so that
you can step out front it's not okay
to expect little of yourself and demand
great rewards the only thing that's okay
is to be in line with the way that the
world really works and if you want to be
great you've got to become capable of
greatness you've got to develop your
skill set you've got to take what you
have now
that's crawling than [__] crawl but
you drag yourself ever forward to a
vision of yourself that is so clear and
so specific that nothing could knock you
off your path because you my friends
know exactly where you're going you're
willing to pay whatever price it takes
to get there and no matter what anybody
says no matter how many [__] hecklers
come for you no matter how many people
try to flow dirt on you try to stop you
try to knock you down no matter how many
[__] people come for you at night
while you sleep you you'll rise and you
will keep pushing forward and you will
get better every day and no matter how
many times people chop at you knock you
down knock you off the path you can get
back on you will crawl soon you can walk
you will walk till you run and
until you fly and that my friends is the
only path forward so if you want a
[__] future that makes you happy if
you want to warm that you're excited
about get your ass out there and earn it
as ernest hemingway noted the world
breaks everyone and afterward many are
stronger in the broken places but my
question is why isn't everyone to me it
comes down to the strategies that you
use there really isn't anything
objectively good or bad there isn't
anything that happens to you that can't
be overcome there isn't anything that
could happen to you
anything that when you turn inward you
can't find a reason to overcome you
can't find a way to put those pieces
back together and that becomes your job
it becomes literally up to you whether
you're going to sit and wallow and woe
is me because what happened happened and
there's no way to take it back but how
you respond what you bring to that table
whether you meet fire with fire whether
you meet that adversity with falling
apart becoming weaker in the areas that
broke or you bind them and mend them and
it becomes like a well that literally
makes you stronger is a choice and it's
a choice only you get to make but as
Stephen Hawking said when you complain
nobody wants to help you there are many
things in your life do you have every
reason to complain about you have every
reason to be upset by the things that
have happened to you the most sinister
thing about excuses is they're valid
there's a million reasons why you should
be able to give up there's a million
reasons why you shouldn't need to try
that thing that broke you you should be
allowed to just sit on the ground and
here's the thing that's your right you
have every reason to do it and maybe
people won't even think less of you
but here's the truth you either become
weaker or stronger in the places that
broke and that's a choice of how you
react moving forward
the great news is the best thing that
you could do to become stronger is love
yourself and as Kamal Ravi Kahn said
loving yourself is a practice
people think that it's something that's
gonna feel right that it's gonna feel
natural that you're just gonna turn
inward and there it is this spark of
love and joy for yourself inside
yourself and the truth is that's just
not the human experience that's not the
way that it works there's gonna be a
voice inside your head and it's going to
blame you it's gonna say that it's your
fault and no matter how many times
people on the outside tell you that that
is not true that this thing happened to
you that it isn't you it doesn't define
you there will be a voice that's going
to tell you that it does and that's
where you have to fall back on process
that's where you have to realize that
you literally have to practice loving
yourself and that it's okay that no
matter what happened there is absolutely
nothing that invalidates that you're
worthy of your own love
but you've got to practice it you've got
to be willing to do it you've got to be
willing to put in the reps you've got to
know that it's not gonna feel right but
you've got to know on the other side of
that is a vision of your life where you
actually do love yourself because you
took the time to say it you took the
time to practice it you took the time to
sit there and feel stupid and say that
you love yourself and sometimes just
putting in the work is what you need to
do to get strong so put in the work
as Daniel ping said people fail to
achieve mastery not because they aren't
talented but because they are
disciplined the wonderful news about the
human condition is you can get good at
anything that you set your mind to it's
just not going to be easy and it's not
gonna be fast but the willingness to put
in that work is what's going to separate
you from everybody else and I'm begging
you to see yourself right now today as
average as know better than anyone else
but I beg you with more force than I
know how to convey with this language to
see yourself as malleable to see
yourself as capable of becoming anything
you want to become to become truly
extraordinary if you can find within
yourself the discipline to stick with it
long enough and as Steve Martin said
perseverance is a great substitute for
talent everybody wants to talk about
who's talented everybody looks at the
person with innate talent as if they
have something magical but to me
it's a gift it's a handout it's a
freebie
it hasn't been earned and no matter what
it is it's only the beginning even
somebody that has talent even if you get
an early win if you let somebody outwork
you if you let somebody was more
perseverance more grit than you than
they are going to outperform you on a
long enough timeline the only thing I
can guarantee is you will be out work by
somebody unless you pour your heart and
soul into getting great if you don't
take days off if you put yourself into
it as if your life depended on it when
you act like that then you've got a
chance to be great and as Robert Horry
said pressure can bust pipes but it can
also make diamonds you've got to want
that pressure you've got to want things
to be hard you can't seek out the easy
life you can't just hope and pray that
you can uncover inside of you some
talent that's lay dormant that you
didn't know about that's gonna let
things be easy for you don't want the
easy want the hard want the pressure
want the thing that's going to turn you
into something because when it's easy
you don't work for it when it's easy you
don't push when it's easy you get
surpassed by the person who has to give
it their all who's prepared to do blood
sweat and tears in order to become that
thing that they want to be so badly
because they are so [__] angry that
they were never given anything and with
that chip on their shoulder they're
determined to become anything that they
set their mind to so whether you have
talent whether you don't the only thing
that matters is will you persevere
will you stick with it long enough to
get great
[Music]
as Thomas Jefferson said he who knows
best knows just how little he knows this
has been one of the most surreal things
about my experience as an entrepreneur
is that the better I get at it the more
that I do the more I feel lost the more
I feel like there's too much for me to
possibly know and understand and in that
is my power that's literally the source
of my power because I understand that my
journey is one of learning I understand
that as navall Ravi Kant said the
genuine love for reading itself when
cultivated is a superpower the means of
learning are abundant it's the desire to
learn that scarce but if you have that
desire if you cultivate that desire to
learn if you accept that you're in this
big world that is far too big for you to
understand every piece of it but in
recognizing that you don't understand it
all and putting yourself on this quest
to learn obsessively to get better to
fall in love with the actual process of
gaining knowledge if you stay hungry for
that at all times and you don't calcify
your thoughts into Dogma but rather stay
fresh stay naive stay hungry and foolish
to really learn and grow then you
actually obtain power and this is the
part I want people to understand look
past the words and hear what I'm really
saying as you take on the knowledge as
you're learning one thing after another
after another those skills have
practical application and it is that
practical application born of
understanding how little you really know
that allows you to become far more
powerful than the people that think they
know because when they think they know
they stop throwing and they think they
know they tell supply when they think
they know their thoughts get brittle
like bone and break
[Music]
you think you know nothing you think you
have to learn everything you're really
just trying to figure out if something
works if it gets you the result then
those skills become real they become
tested by what you're doing they are
boundless because you're always trying
to find that next thing you're never
self-satisfied you never
self-congratulatory you're simply asking
where do I want to go what skills do I
need to acquire to get there and knowing
that each one of those that you get
brick by brick by brick builds a real
path to where you want to go so fall in
love with the idea that you know nothing
fall in love with the idea that learning
is a superpower fall in love with that
hunger want that want to get better
every day never never be tricked by the
desire to be self satisfied you never
will be tricked by the desire to be
great today never fool yourself into
thinking who you are today is who you
can become
I don't care how far you've come I don't
care how many accomplishments are in
your rear view mirror if you fall prey
to that your past will always be bigger
than your future and there's one mandate
that I make of myself and anyone else
that wants to be around me your future
must always be bigger than your past and
the only way for that to be true is to
love how little you really know and to
love how much you can learn
if you just keep going as Oprah Winfrey
said what you dwell on is what you
become once you understand that humans
are the ultimate adaptation machine and
you understand that the brain actually
builds faster and better connections
between the things that you think on you
will begin to understand that it is
incredibly important to be thoughtful
about what you think about it's
incredibly important to pick a direction
that you want to grow and to decide who
you want to become and then make that
the center of your focus your thoughts
your time your energy and if you look
inward or if you look outward and you
don't like what you see remember what
Jim Rohn said if you don't like how
things are change it you're not a tree
and that's the beauty that's the
beautiful thing about being a human we
are so plastic and we can change so
dramatically we are so good at adapting
that we forget that's literally what we
do but if you can take control of that
process if you can grab a hold of it and
make it your own if you can make it your
daily obsession to make the most of your
potential to pick a very specific
direction to pick an end goal and end
state and end identity and work your way
backwards find out the steps that you're
going to need to take to get there to
execute and have the willingness to put
in the work to have the willingness to
be both the sculptor and the clay to
understand that the suffering that comes
with that of changing yourself of making
yourself into something great
is a suffering well working it's a
suffering that you should embrace it's a
suffering that you should run towards
because in that suffering you can become
anything you want so start to dwell on
that dwell on a vision of you being
great dwell on a vision of you
accomplishing your goals dwell on a
vision of you having done this amazing
thing that you want to do dwell on an
image of you being willing to sweat and
bend yourself in half and break if need
to and bleed when necessary to become
the vision of yourself you always knew
you could become dwell on that and
nothing can stop
as epictetus said he is a wise man who
does not grieve for things which he has
not but rejoices for those which he has
and that's gratitude isn't it it's the
very base decision that we all have to
make are you grateful for the things you
have in your life or are you always
wanting more and trust me I get it I
understand people that strive for more I
understand people that want something
bigger and better but at the same time
if you allow yourself to only think
about what you don't have to only be
striving for something more that that
obsession will begin to overtake you it
will begin to corrode you but ultimately
it's a choice ultimately at any time
right now in this moment you can stop
and think about what you have you can
put your attention on the things you're
grateful for and watch what it does
watch what it does in that instance the
way that it changes you the way that it
changes your chemistry your feelings in
a moment can shift from negative and
dark to beautiful with nothing else
changing around you nothing but you
deciding that you're gonna focus on the
things you're grateful for nothing but
deciding that there are things in your
life to be grateful for and that is a
decision no matter what is happening in
your life at any moment right now in the
depths of a depression in something
going on terribly in your life you can
choose right now to think about the
things you're grateful for the breeze a
smile from somebody kind a stranger who
holds open a door for you anything but
it's a choice and as Einstein said there
are only two ways to live your life
one is as though nothing is a miracle
the other is as though everything is a
miracle and what choice are you making
what are you choosing to focus on right
now do you let gratitude fill you up or
not and here's the critical part and I
want you to listen to this really well
whatever you decide whether you decide
we live in a
of miracles or whether we decide to live
in a world devoid of miracles you were
choosing one thing to the exclusion of
the other and when you focus on
something that you're grateful for when
you look at those little moments in your
life and choose to see them as grand
miracles even when it is only a gentle
hand on your shoulder even then it's
only a kiss from somebody who you kissed
a thousand times before even when it is
only holding the hand of somebody who
needed their hand held even when it's
something that simple
[Music]
it really is a miracle that it really is
something that can fill you it really is
something that will change your
chemistry bring a connection between two
people allow you to see a grander Vista
or even just open a window and look out
at the world and realize that you're
alive that this is all a miracle that
none of this is guaranteed that every
breath you take could be your last and
in that you can choose to cherish what
you have in that you can decide to focus
on that you have a breath to take and
even when it's something that simple
when you train your mind to do that when
you train yourself to decide to see the
beauty in that that nobody can ever take
it away from you and matter where you
are no matter what's going on in your
life you'll be able to rise up and feel
the beauty that is being alive so take a
minute at the worst times in your life
and focus on the things you're grateful
for
I want you to burn into your nervous
system the following statement because
it is a fundamental truth of the human
condition it is literally the base line
physics of what it means to be a person
as Earl Nightingale said we become what
we think about and that's an idea that I
want you to hold firmly in your mind
that's something that I really want you
to internalize I really want you to stop
right now whatever you're doing I want
you to stop lean into this video and
listen to what I'm saying you will
become what you think about really think
about that for a second as if it wasn't
just a phrase as if it's more than just
words as if it were a truth about how
the brain works because it is you're
going to become the thing that you think
about and I know that you're dwelling on
a lot of negative [__] I know that
you're carrying a lot of baggage with
you and I know that as you think about
how things might go wrong that you
believe you believe to the core of your
being that you're just planning for the
hard times but the truth is you're going
to become those things that you fear
you're going to become the things that
you dread if you're thinking about all
the things you've done wrong in the past
you are going to simply continue that
cycle but if on the other hand and let
this be true let this ring in your ears
with the weight of everything that I
carry if I've ever added an ounce of
value to you if anything I have ever
said it seems remotely true believe that
these are the most important words I'm
ever going to save you if you begin
to focus on positive things if you begin
to focus on your capabilities if you
begin to focus on a potential that you
have if you really dig in build those
skills drive towards something beautiful
something amazing something that leaves
you in oven you want to create that you
want to become the vessel for that then
you will you will become that thing
because you will take those steps
because you become what you think about
and as Mark Twain said 20 years from now
you'll be more disappointed by the
things that you didn't do so if you
don't take those steps if you don't
focus on those things if you don't
manifest what you want to become if you
don't believe in it if you don't see how
real it can be if you can't picture the
version of yourself that you want to
become and even though people have told
you that it's not possible for you that
the things you did in the past are never
going to allow you to do that but you're
not smart enough if you let that creep
into your mind and that's what's gonna
happen but if you can see that vision if
you can allow yourself to believe it
then you're going to take the steps that
you need to execute against that and if
you go out there and do those things you
won't regret it but you will regret it
if you don't
so get out right now and build the
person you want to be so you can have
the life you want to have
[Music]
you